Oh we can't feel the end to almost we're in Rule number four.
The final rule in our rule book drop non dominance or drop non-dominant terms.
What do we mean.
Let's have a look.
Let's say we have a function again with a really long name that says print all numbers then all pair
sumps.
Maybe not the best name for our function.
We can probably work on the readability here but let's see what this function does well.
This function takes numbers and these numbers variable.
We're going to loop over them with a For Each loop.
So again just looping over and logging out the numbers and then we have another step which should remind
you that's probably an addition that we're doing we're adding another step and in here we're summing
the pair sumps.
That is where adding each number one after another.
Let's show you with a little bit of a demo here.
If let's say we create actually We'll just print numbers and end here for the numbers let's just give
it an array of 1 2 3 4 5.
If I click wrong here we see that these are the numbers 1 2 3 4 5.
Because this is the step where just logging it out.
Nothing too difficult.
And these are their sumps.
All we're doing is adding one with one then one with two which equals three.
One with three which equals four.
One with four which equals five and one in five which equals six.
And then we move on to the next loop which is two and one which equals three two and two which equals
four and it keeps going on and on and on.
So we see the loops that we've done here and problems like this is something we're going to do later
on in the course right now we're just worried about big-O.
What do you think the Big-O notation here is well.
Once again if we do 0 of the first part is the for loop.
So we can say that there is of an And then the second part which again is another step so we're going
to say add plus this one has two four loops nested.
So that means 0 to the power of two.
All right.
So that's our Big-O notation.
By Rule number four states that we want to drop the non dominant terms.
That means we care about the most important term in this case.
We actually drop the n and just have.
And to the power of two because as the input increases the size of N to the power of two is way more
important than the.
And so we always just keep the dominant term.
Let me give you another example.
What if we had a function that had a big O of let's say X to the power of 2 and then we'll say that
it has 3 x plus 1000 and maybe we'll say plus X divided by two.
All right.
That's really really confusing that's math.
Well we're not gonna want to deal with that too much.
How do we simplify this.
Based on the drop non-dominant terms the fourth rule states that again we worry about the most important
dominant term because X to the power of two is the most significant.
That is if X is 5 5 to the power of two is twenty five five times three is 15.
This is a hundred and five divided by two is 2.5.
In this case the dominant term is a hundred.
But remember with big-O we're worried about scale.
And as things go larger and larger and larger.
So when this becomes five thousand Well 5000 to the power of two or 500 to the power of two that's 250000.
If I did the math right three times 500 is only a hundred thousand five hundred a hundred is now insignificant
and 500 divided by two is 250.
You see how this has grown significantly more again because we're only worried about scale here.
We drop everything else and we can just ignore it completely.
And this becomes X to the power of 2.
How nice is that just makes things so much simpler.
So there you have it.
We have now a way to simplify everything.
If we go back to our past examples remember this one.
Remember this one it now makes sense why we've just said big-O of and because we don't care about the
insignificant items only the most important ones.
And same with this one by the way a fun little note here.
If we had a nother loop inside of these two loops Well this would become o.
To the power of x cubed or and cubed.
Doesn't really matter what we have but it's going to be to the power of Thweatt because we have three
nested layers and you can keep going.
You have to the power of four to the power of five.
But here's the thing.
If you have three nested loops.
Ninety nine point ninety nine percent of the time.
That's usually a bad idea.
It scales really really badly and most likely you're doing something wrong.
And there you have it.
We've gone over the four rules and with this in mind we're going to take a look at the cheat sheet that
I prepared for you.
So from now on instead of having to calculate everything and really look at every single detail of a
function you can right away figure out what the big-O is or what the time complexity of a function is.